## WeRateDogs Twitter Data Analysis and Visualization

### Data Wrangling
Data wrangling steps include Gathering of data, assessing of the data and Cleaning of the data.
#### 1. Gather 
First of all, the WeRateDogs Twitter archive data (twitter_archive_enhanced.csv) was directly downloaded and then imported into the workspace using the pd.read_csv command.
The Requests library was then to download the tweet image prediction (image_predictions.tsv) using requests.get(url) command.
The last part of the data gathering step was using the Tweepy library to query additional data via the Twitter API (tweet_json.txt).

#### 2.	Assess
Nine (9) quality issues and two (2) tidiness issue were detected and documented. They are as follows:
##### Quality Issues
1.	There are duplicate images for some entries.
2.	Some column names are confusing as they do not give much information about the content.
3.	There is more than one classification for some dogs.
4.	Some dogs have no classification.
5.	The image prediction dataset has 2075 entries as compared to twitter archive's 2356 entries.
6.	There are some missing values.
7.	The number of data entries in the twitter API dataset differs from the other two datasets.
8.	There are some wrong dog names. Eg. a dog being called 'a'
9.	Timestamp has wrong datatype that is object instead of date.
##### Tidiness Issues
1.	All the datasets should be merged.
2.	The columns that classify dogs should be added together for easier analysis.

#### 3.	Clean 
Some of the issues documented were accessed. These issues are as follows:
1.	There is more than one classification for some dogs.
2.	Timestamp has wrong datatype that is object instead of date.
3.	There are duplicate images for some entries.
4.	There are some missing values.
5.	Some columns are not necessary
6.	New column needed.
7.	Some column names are confusing as they do not give much information about the content.
8.	Reordering column names.

###  Insights:
#### 1.	Distribution of dog cuteness
* •	Not all dogs can be the same. Some might be cuter than others or generally preferred by their cuteness level. The levels have also been categorized into four. 
* The data was examined based on the cuteness of the various dogs. This was generated by using the rating column. 
#### 2.	Highly rated dog by name
* •	Some people generally choose or prefer their dogs based on their names making their love for them greater.
* This insight was generated by first grouping the names of the dogs with the ratings. The average was found of the respective dog names in relation to rating. It shows how ratings are considering just dog names.
#### 3.	Highly rated dog by stage
* •	Some people also prefer some dogs based on their stages and rate them accordingly.
* This insight was generated by first grouping the various stages of the dogs with the ratings. The average was found of the respective dog stages in relation to rating. It shows how ratings are considering just dog stages. 

### Visualization
*The pie chart below shows the distribution of the cuteness of dogs. The dogs were
categorized into four groups namely normal dog, beautiful dog, nice dog and the most highly
rated one adorable dogs.

*The majority of the pie chart is in favour of normal dogs with them being 41.90%
 
*Followed by beautiful dogs with 22.78%

*Almost the same value as beautiful dogs is nice dogs at 20.17%

*The highest ratings which are adorable dogs is 15.15% which is the lowest percentage as compared to the others.